package Music::Duration::Partition::Tutorial::Quickstart;

=head1 Setup

=head2 Import the MIDI::Util Module

  use MIDI::Util qw(setup_score);

=head2 Import the Music::Duration::Partition Module

  use Music::Duration::Partition ();

=head2 Import the Musical Scales Module

  uses Music::Scales qw(get_scale_MIDI);

=head2 Get a Score

  my $score = setup_score();

=head1 Object Instantiation

=head2 Attribute configuration

  my $mdp = Music::Duration::Partition->new(
      size      => 8,
      pool      => [qw(hn dqn qn en)],
      weights   => [    1,  1, 2, 1 ],
      groups    => [    1,  1, 1, 2 ],
      remainder => 1,
      verbose   => 1,
  );

=head1 Motifs

=head2 motif()

  my $motif = $mdp->motif; # e.g. []

A "motif" is (usually) a short phrase that is used in the development
or progression of a piece of music.

For this module, a motif is an ordered set of rhythmic durations.

=head2 motifs()

  my @motifs = $mdp->motifs(4);

Retun a set of motifs.

=head1 Pitches == Notes == Voices

=head2 Get Some Pitches

  my @pitches = get_scale_MIDI('C', 4, 'major');

Use the scale method to get a set of pitches in the key of C major, in
the fourth octave.

=head2 Gather Voices at Random

  my @voices;

  for my $m (@motifs) {
      my @notes;

      for my $i (@$m) {
          push @notes, $pitches[ int rand @pitches ]; 
      }

      push @voices, \@notes;
  }

Here the voices to be played, are collected and correspond directly to
motif entries.

=head1 Finish

=head2 add_to_score()

  for my $i (1 .. 4) {
      for my $n (0 .. $#motifs) {
          $mdp->add_to_score($score, $motifs[$n], $voices[$n]);
      }
  }

Loop over the indices of the motifs and voices, adding each to the
score, repeated four times.

=head2 And Write

  $score->write_score('duration-partition.mid');

Write the score out to a MIDI file.

=head1 MIDI Playback

Use the venerable command-line program,
L<timidity++|https://timidity.sourceforge.net/|>,
which is likely available through your package manager (e.g. apt,
homebrew). You can also use the excellent, cross platform program,
L<VLC|https://www.videolan.org/vlc/|>.

  > timidity duration-partition.mid

Easy!

=cut
